We have already identified what
are the factors around which competition
revolves, in which they are
investing and what we
value customers.
And what we're going to do now
is draw the value curves of the
four segments I have asked you.
Luxury, premium or quality restaurants
that are a little below those
of luxury, neighborhood
restaurants and low
cost chains.
You will see how it helps
us visualize what each
of them is focusing on.
It is important to keep in mind that
the different proposals, the different
value curves are born from a knowledge
of the particular needs of the customer
segment to which each segment
is addressed, because obviously
they are different segments
and for different uses.
We start with the luxury restaurants.
We are talking about restaurants
with a Michelin star, a menu for
tasting, because a very high price
of more than 100 euros.
What is the value curve?
It is very easy to draw the curve of
value.
Why is it?
Because they invest a lot and
offer a lot of value in almost every
factor, in everything related
to quality, with the brand, with
the chef, with the environment,
with the decoration, however.
In the only thing, what they
do not invest in, because it is not important
and is an interesting analysis,
is in convenience.
It is not important for a
restaurant of this type the convenience.
You may be located 20 kilometers
from the nearest population
centre.
No matter, people will move
to such a restaurant.
You don't offer convenience, right?
No offer...
Look, in many cases, if you
want to book a table you have to
wait months, etc.
It is not thought of as far
as convenience, as far as comfort.
Well, of all these, if
we had to identify two factors
that are the key factors now
that are determining the competition
between this type of restaurants
currently is the chef.
Having a chef, a recognized
figure, is very important to them.
And in the brand, the brand, we were
talking, because remember, for
example, having Michelin stars.
These are the two factors
that create a competitive
advantage.
The main difference is that
you would go to a restaurant
or another.
Well, let's now analyze the second
segment that are quality,
luxury, premium restaurants,
etc.
Not a lot, but a little below the
luxury.
They are restaurants with
lower prices, but they
are used for business meals
or for dinners or weekends,
etc.
What is the value curve?
It is easy to paint because it is
a little underneath everything.
For as far as price, as far as quality,
as far as a less recognized chef,
as far as the sophistication
of the food and so on.
There is a point where it is above
the luxury restaurants and
it is in convenience.
You think that this type
of restaurants are usually located
in cities, in urban environments,
often have car parks, that
is, they are designed to make
it convenient to go.
Because keep in mind that if you eat
on the weekend or if you are going
to eat a business meal, etc.
It must be convenient.
It is a less sporadic use than the
luxury restaurant, so it has
to be comfortable.
Let us now think about how it is
the proposal of a neighborhood
restaurant or a restaurant of
the day menu.
Well, I think the proposal
is obviously below the previous
restaurants in terms
of price, in terms of quality,
in terms of sophistication.
The chef is not a recognized
figure, you don't have to invest in
that.
But there are two keys I want
to highlight.
One, personal service is important,
it is below because they invest less,
but it is important for
this type of restaurants the
value of knowing their customers,
of being very close to their
customers.
The most important factor is the
convenience in this case.
You have to remember that they
are restaurants you have to go to
on a daily basis.
For example, the restaurant
menu of the day you eat on
your work break, must
be nearby.
If you are not near, you are not comfortable,
you are not fast, you will not come back.
Comfort is a key factor.
And it turns out that this proposal
or this segment has been a
huge competitor for a few years.
And they are chains, the first was Pret
a Manger.
There are many chains, you probably
know them.
There are many chains of this
type near the office centers.
You can serve yourself, almost it is a
self-service where you pick up dishes, etc.
and pay.
And it is very, very, very fast.
So it is very convenient.
It is much more thought-out for this
type of use.
Therefore, they have sought their
differentiation from the traditional
neighborhood restaurant.
This is mainly due to two factors.
One, which we said is faster.
You have an hour of rest,
imagine, at work.
Well, you come here and in five minutes
you have the food and you are sitting.
In a restaurant menu of the day
you have to wait, etc.
It is more valuable.
They also incorporated another factor.
You can choose healthy food.
This is something that has made
a lot of people, say, who migrate
or prefer this type of proposals.
And they are cheaper than the restaurants
than the menu of the day.
This is a very interesting analysis.
Here is the curve of value.
The value curve of the chain like
Pret to Manger, for example, is below
that of the menu of the day, that
of the neighborhood restaurant
in terms of sophistication, etc.
As for the price.
But it has more value than
we say.
It is faster.
It's also healthier, right?
I think this is a very, very interesting analysis.
Now, let's go to the low cost chains.
The low cost chains, the curve
is absolutely very, very, very
below.
As for price, sophistication, chef,
they don't have a chef, they're completely
standard processes.
What they offer is a price.
The advantage for the customer is that
the price is obviously very cheap.
It is a low cost competition.
They are very convenient restaurants.
There are many points of sale.
It is fast.
They often go through etc.
But they incorporate a factor
that had not been taken into account
so far.
We did not name him.
None of the above.
And it is the possibility of with
the family, for example, and that the
children are playing.
Even in many cases in
restaurants there is a
dedicated space for children
to play.
This, this particular factor, is what
makes in many cases families choose
this option because it is thought
for family and for child with
respect to all the previous ones.
This is not the price in many cases.
It is also the price.
But this factor, the factor incorporating
the family factor is very
important.
And now I'll analyze the value
proposal of two types of restaurants
to illustrate a bit how there are
proposals that seek their concrete
differentiation.
Imagine a restaurant in an environment
like the one we are seeing,
on the beach.
How did you find your differentiation?
In a particular case, such
as the location of the first.
This restaurant is
just like that.
There is room for all kinds of differences.
I will give you another example.
A vegan restaurant.
How did you find your differentiation?
Focus on a very specific segment
of customers incorporating
a factor that others had
not taken into account.
All food is vegan
or vegetarian.
It is an example of how he has sought
his hole, his space.
If we go to Michael Porter's
generic strategies, in the last
case we've seen it's clear that
what they've done is focusing
on a very small niche of the
population.
What happens is that by focusing on that
niche, it allows them to offer a very
suitable proposal.
They are vegetarians or vegans and
they offer them a meal, the only
food that meets the
needs of that niche.